The Joe Rogan experience. Um,
when you see Jim's, you know, well,
when you see Jims like mine that have all this equipment,
all these different things,
do you look at that as like that's excessive or unnecessary? Joel.
That depends. That all depends in the circumstances.
We're talking about CrossFit generally.
Like we're talking about CrossFit gen CrossFit earlier. I think CrossFit gyms.
I love CrossFit gyms. I mean, they have a few things I think are not necessary,
but not so many, but they have a lot of great stuff,
high pull out bars and platforms and so on and so forth.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> those are essentials.
But then beyond that is just whatever you add for yourself.
And without knowing your training needs, uh, your background,
I don't, I can't evaluate your gym. Right.
But I can tell you that most people have too much stuff and that becomes
a problem of choices. Mm. So you come in, you have this and this and that.
So what are you gonna do? Right. You're just confused. What is it called? Uh,
the paradox of choice or something.
Like that? Yes. Yes. Now what about injuries?
You <affirmative> how often do you get injured from this kind of exercising?
I've had a number of Rangers in my life, older contact injuries, like, you know,
fractures and things like that. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, they're not from,
they're not from lifting, from lifting things who, old tweaks,
all of them were tweaks. Mm-hmm <affirmative> but, you know,
tearing ligamentss by falling and things like that.
No. So you've never had issues with tendenitis or yeah.
I've had a little, some of that. Yeah.
Some of that doing training pullups too heavy and things like that,
things happen.
What do you do to combat that? That's exactly what I got mine from. Sure. Yeah.
Well, first of all, provided in the absence of medical restrictions,
you just worked around things.
You find things to do that work the area without aggravating.
It mm-hmm <affirmative>, that's, that's, you know,
that's kind of the age old prescription for what you want to do. And,
but I'm telling you that a lot of things we do are allowing
a lot of people to get back in the game. People have been really injured before,
and I can tell you that the techniques we use are strong first ketable
techniques and some other techniques.
We have supporters amongst top healthcare professionals.
People like professor Stewart McGill, who is, uh,
top spine by meennist in the world and who works with the elite of the elite of
athletes. And also the most broken down people. Greg cook,
who's a top physical therapist, people like that.
So we have a very good track record of keeping people healthy.
I like this old expression from George,
the Russian lion Hacken Schmid strength cannot be divorced from health. Mm.
I think that's a great line. That's.
A great line. Yeah. That's a great line.
I specifically have something with my biison up tendon.
I think I got it from two things. I got it from training, uh,
doing a lot of chin ups, but also from archery cuz in archery,
you're extending mm-hmm <affirmative> as you're drawing back at the same time
and this particular muscle gets overworked. Cause.
Well have uh, Dr. Mark Chang. I know, you know, doc help doc check you out.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. I'll talk to him. Mm-hmm <affirmative> um, what about your diet?
I'm a anatomy of nutrition. I,
and the only thing about it I' enemy like my and enemy of nutrition.
I hate it.
Man. But you mean.
<Laugh>.
It's such a confusing thing I'm telling you in training,
it's really kind of funny about training in like I do my thing. You do.
You're saying he does he saying, but we gotta it's cool. Right, right.
In nutritions, like it's the only way. Right. And uh,
there are so many different variables that, uh,
it's very hard to keep track of. And so I,
I just feel sorry for people in that field. I really do. It's.
It's an awful thing. You have to constant only be reading papers.
You have to constantly be studying and.
It's still hopeless. Yes. It's it's just really hopeless. It's such a, you know,
the body is a complex system, but I think this particular,
this particular silo is worse than others. Yeah.
It's just so nonlinear and it's just so difficult to figure this out.
Biological.
Variability is so confusing too. With one person that die, it would be optimal.
The other person, it would be terrible.
You know, I think what we should do is focus.
Whether it's in diet or in training,
we should try to focus on things that are more universal. So for example,
in terms of longevity, uh, Dr. Nick lane,
who's a miochondrial researcher. He made a very interesting point.
He said right now for longevity, these so many efforts are directed at, um,
the genetic engineering, manipulation, whatever fooling around,
trying to make this really, really customized. And he said, you know,
what's really interesting.
Why don't we try to focus on something that's been known to work,
not just for any individual. It works for practic pretty much every species,
which is mitochondrial health.
And he says that if we find a way of extending,
the lifes spent 130 years old,
he's pretty sure it's gonna come from mitochondrial health. And, uh,
the stimuli for mitochondrial health are pretty much well known.
Well, there may be some more down the road in now. We do know. So for example,
in terms of nutrition, that's,
that's fasting in terms of exercise,
it is both aerobic,
steady state exercise and that type of work for fast fibers that I told you
about antiggltic training and, um,
there's cold. So those are the stimuli,
the primary stimuli for the mitochondria. So probably for nutrition,
the same thing, they should look for more things that work for everybody.
And then on kind of on the margins, try to fool around with, um, customization.
What.
About you personally? What kind of diet do you fall.
Back? Some years ago I met a very interesting gen or H meler and he
introduced me to, uh, his so-called warrior diet.
And I was not interested in any kind of a diet, any kind of a body cam changes.
I'm just not into that kind of thing. But what attracted me is efficiency.
He said to seed once a day and I thought, sure, I'll try.
And this was long before the current trabunent fasting
craze has begun. So I don't think or' is getting quite the credit he deserves.
So I pretty much just eat, eat a large dinner and don't worry about it.
Do you snack at all during the day or anything? Nothing. It kills me, man.
Really? Yeah. And this has always been the case with you. If you snack,
it kills you or as you get older.
Just no, since I started this, this way of eating.
So your body's acclimated to this one large meal.
It did. It did. And I just feel great when I do.
That, you gotta eat, slam a lot of calories down in one meal though, right?
Yeah. Like what do you eat? A mostly of course.
<Laugh> no chicken. Just send to chicken. Say.
No to chicken. Just send no, why what's wrong with chicken? I just lame. I.
Don't like it. You don't.
<Laugh> what don't you like about the taste or what it stands for?
It's a weak bird. So it is a weak bird. Yeah. Can't even fly. Just, just.
Say no, just say noted chicken. Really?
Yeah. Wow. What, what about fish?
Well, my wife makes me I'll eat it. <laugh> not, not outta choice.
But mostly meat. Yeah.
Yeah. But you understand what I'm telling is just personal choice is not,
of course not professional recommendation. I understand.
I understand totally outta my, my wheel house.
But what about vegetables?
Uh, vegetables, just kind of a necessary evil. You.
I do eat them and what's.
Necessary about them.
You know, this is an interesting point. Same doc Nick lane
did some research and summarize some other research,
like why our fruit and vegetables good for you.
And the party line is the antioxidantss and they almost
convincingly concluded.
That's not the case because if you just try to
isolate antioxidants, just give it to people. They don't have the same effect.
So the current theory it's quite, you know,
and it's very likely, it's true is, uh, the plant toxins,
uh, pretty much promote heroressis,
joressis pretty much resistance against stuff.
So it's pretty much mild doses of poison that you take to make yourself
stronger. Mm. So that's most likely what these things are good for.
Yeah.
But anytime you hear about antioxidantss this antioxidaccidents that it's,
unless they're prescribed by a doctor to a particular patients, uh,
patient antioxidants, supplementation mightment cost cancer. Really?
So there's studies in that. Yeah.
That's just not something to shotgun or go to the pharmacy, buy all this stuff.
No.
You should know exactly what you're taking them for and should be a specific
that should.
Be, you should gather recommendation prescription from your doctor.
That is correct. Have.
You ever, do you know anybody that follows a carnivo diet?
What's a carnivo diet carnivore. Diet's very recent. Within the last few years,
people are eating only animal products. Okay. And the,
the great benefit that some people have had is people with autoimmune issues
like skin conditions, eczema, things, along those lines, it seems to cure it up,
uh, people with, uh, severe arthritis. It's I mean,
by cutting all plant foods completely, uh,
some people with autoimmune issues have found, uh, great results.
Some people have found great results with depression,
but it's extremely controversial. And you know, uh,
it's also ideologically troubling for some people.
Some people don't want you to eat meat at all. So if you're eating only meat,
this is terrible. You're sending a bad message. And.
<Laugh> you think that's funny. Okay. Well, it sounds like a fun diet man.
Sounds awesome. You, but I I'm completely unqualified to comment on that, right.
Yeah.
But would you be interested in trying it, would I be.
Interested in trying it? I, when I see some more research on that,
I might not that I'm a, a fan of vegetables or anything. So I'm, you know, I,
I would consider it. Yeah. You say.
Vegetables with disdain, you say vegetables, like you understand.
It's a necessary evil<laugh> you understand certain things.
It's like your foam roller Joe, but I'm not, you know, you just do it. It's not,
you don't enjoy it. That.
Thing next to you, that Tim Tam,
that's what I use instead of a foam roller that Jack hammer right underneath the
tribe pod. Okay. That's uh, that was invented by, uh,
MMA coach ferraa hobby. Okay. And, uh, cool. More effective.
So that's better than vegetables. Oh, quick too. Veget. Better than vegetables.
I don't know. Better than foam rower. I think so. But,
but that's what I'm saying. Like for a guy like you,
that talks about vegetables with such disdain, I would think that I.
It's a necessary evil. You understand?
But is, this is the thing I'm.
Not based, based on the current, not, well,
the docs will tell you all this stuff about fiber and this and that.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, that's supposedly good. And again, that's,
that's not my specialty. Right. But this other point about heressis,
which is again, building up your resistance. Yes.
Resilience to things mm-hmm <affirmative> so it's very possible.
Vegetables are evil and the small, old doses of these evil make us stronger.
Small, small doses.
Well little tiny, like a quarter of.
Your plate. Yeah. Well, it should be more probably, probably. I dunno. <laugh>.
It's just a funny subject with you. You have a, an interesting relationship.
I told you I'm a nanny of nutrition. I hate it. I, I just really hate it. I,
I have a sympathy,
deep sympathy for people who are in that line of work.
Now, do you supplement with multivitamins or creatin or anything along those.
Lines? No, I don't.
And you knowreattin is definitely supplementation is not my specialty either,
but I can tell youreattin is one of those supplements that definitely has been
tested extensively and while not for everybody, it does work.
For. Yeah.
So it's also been for a lot of people it' have been proven as a neutropic,
which I think is fascinating. So it's very enhances cognitive performance again.
Out of my, I don't have cognitive performance, so.
You don't have any.
Cogniti. I don't have performance on not, not my thing. So <laugh>.
Now what about vitamins? Do you take any vitamins? No, not there's.
There is, there is no evidence. And again, if,
if you would get a prescription from your doc that you're shortening this mm-hmm
<affirmative> then you should, this is essentially not your wheelhouse.
Absolutely not.
Okay.